# Methods

Flywheel Tools is a multiple purpose toolkit for interacting with the Flywheel
platform. The toolkit allows users to follow a reproducible workflow for BIDS
curation and audit of their data, that includes 1) inspection of sequences; 2)
design of a curation heuristic; 3) heuristic testing and implementation; 3)
curated data inspection and export; and finally 4) audit of data and analyses.

## Programming Languages & Technologies

Flywheel Tools is built primarily in Python 3.6 **[CITE]()** in order to
leverage its highly accessible SDK. Additionally, R 3.4.1, with its
extensive variety of libraries for creating high-quality data analysis reports,
is used for HTML report generation **[CITE]()**. For reproducibility and
workflow management, Flywheel Tools' modules are packaged in
version-controlled software containers built and managed in Docker **[CITE]()**.
Lastly, the Flywheel Tools package relies on users adopting the Brain Imaging
Data Structure (BIDS) paradigm to curate their data. BIDS is a paradigm for
reproducible and collaborative data storage and is growing rapidly in the
neuroimaging community **[CITE]()**, and hence BIDS compatibility is included on
the Flywheel platform.

## Flywheel

Flywheel is a big data management and analysis platform for research, which
lends itself well to neuroimaging. The platform focuses heavily on collaborative
and reproducible science. User-facing components of the platform itself are the
Web User Interface (UI), the Software Development Kit (SDK), and the Application
Programming Interface (API) ([IMAGE HERE]()).

### Flywheel Web UI

The web UI is accessible through any modern web browser and is the primary
method of interacting with Flywheel data. Through this point-and-click
interface, users are able to upload, view, download, and analyse data with ease
and simplicity. However, accomplishing tasks with many repetitive steps or a
large number of subjects/sessions to iterate over can be tiresome and
error-prone. Alongside knowledge of navigating the web UI, many users also make
use of the SDK to munge and analyse data programmatically.

### Flywheel API & SDK

Flywheel's database utilises MongoDB for data storage and access, meaning that
all Flywheel data is represented by hierarchical relationships between document
objects. This has allowed developers to create and store complex structures with
ease, and query data rapidly **[CITE]()**. In order to access this data,
Flywheel uses a RESTful Application Programming Interface (REpresentational
State Transfer) **[CITE]()**, and hence each document or data object is
accessible through a a specific URL that a web browser or SDK can access by
requesting the data and waiting for a response from the server. The Flywheel
Python SDK provides a powerful interface for inspecting, munging, and
manipulating data through this API, by standardising this underlying data model
into Pythonic Objects, the flywheel SDK is effectively an object relationship
mapper (ORM) somewhat similar to the popular SQLAlchemy package. Programming
with the Python SDK involves objects and methods that any user with Python
programming experience can quickly pick up.

### Flywheel Data Model

Once abstracted in Python, Flywheel's data model is simple and should be
familiar to neuroimaging researchers. Objects follow a specific hierarchical
structure **([IMAGE]())** â€” at the top level is the FlyWheel *instance*, a
process running that serves the API to users (for example, a
University). Within the FlyWheel instance, there are multiple *groups*, which
are typically a lab or collection or research that collaborate on one of more
*projects*. Each project object can have one or
many subjects (i.e. participants), and each subject can have one or many
sessions (i.e. scanning visits). Within a session, there may be one or many
acquisition objects which describe the scanning sequence collected during a
particular or examination (e.g. rs-fMRI, DWI, PET), and under each acquisition
is *attached* the data file associated with the sequence (e.g. a NIfTI file).
Note that a file can be attached to any object type, and each object can have
metadata associated with it. Hence, a subject object may have de-identified
demographic metadata associated to that participant, and the object may also
have a self-report scale attached to it as a text file. A notable exception to
the hierarchical structure rule is the analysis object, which behaves in much
the same way as others but can be a child object of any other object, allowing
researchers to create analyses of entire projects, for example, each with their
own associated metadata and files (such as inputs and outputs).

Abstracting this data model in Python results in simple hierarchical objects,
each with setter's and getter's for handling metadata and files, and methods for
accomplishing object-specific tasks like traversing the hierarchical structure
or running analyses. Flywheel Tools' modules make use of this data model to
accomplish a wide range of tasks.

### Flywheel Gears

Flywheel encourages the use of pre-packaged computational workflows, called
*gears*. Gears are run by virtual machines/containers using Docker and hence are
version-controlled and software/platform agnostic **[CITE]()**, and are created
to accomplish the tasks such as data manipulation, pre-processing, analysis, and
summarisation. In addition to the multitude of gears available on the platform,
users are able to package their own software in a gear and use it for running
analysis workflows on their Flywheel data, via the web UI or SDK. Deciding on
whether to accomplish a task using the web UI, programmatically using the SDK,
or by wrapping it as a workflow into a gear, depends on the complexity and
frequency of the task **[IMAGE]()**. Gears can take existing Flywheel data, such
as images or file attachments, as inputs to the workflow, and can be created
with clickable configuration options. Once a workflow has completed running,
Flywheel collects any files remaining in the container's pre-defined output
directory and attaches them to a resulting analysis object. The resultant files
of a gear (such as an HTML report or tabulated data) can be viewed on the
Flywheel UI, downloaded to disk for further data sharing or analysis, or be used
as input to a subsequent gear themselves.

# Results

We implemented the Flywheel Tools package using the Flywheel SDK to enable easy
inspection, curation, validation, and audit of Flywheel data through a handful
of user-friendly gears and command-line interfaces.

The first module of the package is called `fw-heudiconv`, and is largely
inspired by the popular HeuDiConv Python package **[CITE]()**. `fw-heudiconv` is
a multi-part toolbox for reprodicible curation of neuroimaging data into BIDS on
Flywheel. The second module, `flaudit`, is a tool for accomplishing a complete
audit of a Flywheel project, giving users a view of their dataset from 10,000
feet.

## `fw-heudiconv`

The first tool, `fw-heudiconv`, is a multi-purpose command-line interface and
Flywheel gear designed for comprehensive BIDS curation on Flywheel. It is
designed to be intuitive, flexible, and reproducible.

### Architecture & Design

`fw-heudiconv` is inspired in large part by the Heuristic Dicom Converter
(HeuDiConv) package, and shares much of its design practices. In order to curate
data into BIDS, `fw-heudiconv` first considers Dicom data to be the "ground
truth" data, and builds its curation approach using data in the Dicoms' headers.
Ultimately, `fw-heudiconv` only has permission to manipulate metadata attached
to NIfTI files, in the "Info: BIDS" field, which ensures that curation can be
repeated from the stage of Dicom ingress reliably and safely.

`fw-heudiconv` can be downloaded as a Python command-line interface from the
Python Package Index using `pip`, and is available as a point-and-clickable gear
on the Flywheel UI. The gear is managed by Docker containerisation, meaning that
versioning is reliable and reproducible. There are a number of commands
available in `fw-heudiconv`, and each of them starts by querying data from
Flywheel. Users can filter their queries, so as to operate on an entire Flywheel
project, a subset of subjects, or a subset of sessions, and each command has the
ability to safely test and evaluate its effects without manipulating metadata on
Flywheel or writing data to disk. In particular, there are five commands users
can access:

#### 1. `fw-heudiconv-tabulate`

The tabulate tool is used to parse and extract Dicom header information in a
project (or within a filtered subset of that project) and tabulate this data for
the user to examine with ease. By collecting Dicom header information into
tabular format, the tabulate tool gives users a comprehensive overview of the
different scanning sequences that have been collected in the query, including
their sequence parameters. Additionally, users have the option to
limit the tabulation to a unique combination of common Dicom header fields,
which significantly decreases complexity of the table. The table output by this
command can be written to a local disk if run from the command line, or is saved
in the output section of a Flywheel gear if run on Flywheel.

#### 2. `fw-heudiconv-curate`

The curate tool is used to curate a dataset on Flywheel into BIDS format.
Much like HeuDiConv, curation is done through the use of a heuristic, a Python
file which programmatically defines the templates of a range of BIDS valid
filenames, and defines the boolean logic that would assign a given scanning
sequence to each template. This boolean logic is based on the sequence
information users find in the tabulation of sequences, and all fields available
in the Dicom header can be used to parse out which template a particular file
can be assigned to. Additionally, the curate tool can be used to manipulate BIDS
metadata that may need to be added to the dataset. The process of curation only
manipulates BIDS metadata of NIfTI files, and hence can be repeated or updated
at any time at the user's discretion.

#### 3. `fw-heudiconv-export`

The export tool is used to export a BIDS dataset on Flywheel to disk. The tool
is primarily used as a helper tool for other gears and scripts to quickly and
easily extract their BIDS data into the workspace of their analysis pipeline, or
by individuals who need their BIDS data exported from Flywheel.

#### 4. `fw-heudiconv-validate`

The validate tool is a wrapper around the popular BIDS Validator package
**[CITE]()** and is use to check if the applied curation results in a BIDS-valid
dataset. After exporting a data set with `fw-heudiconv-export`, the validate
tool runs the BIDS validator on the dataset and returns the result and verbose
description of the errors and warnings given by the BIDS Validator.

#### 5. `fw-heudiconv-clear`

The clear tool is used to clear BIDS information cleanly and safely from the
project or subjects and sessions queried. This can be useful when overwriting by
re-curating current BIDS data doesn't erase existing data.

### Curation Workflow



## `flaudit`

### Architecture & Design
